# Documentation for E02

# Switch configurations

I started by creating a switch and then cloned it, and also cloned my Lubuntu machine. Then I made sure to set up all connections as in the image I made:

[Network_drawing](/E02/Switches_drawing_E02.png)

After that, I set up both switches by making sure that port 1 and 2 were enabled:
[Switch_configuration](/E02/Switch_configuration.PNG)

I tested out the show config command, which worked as I expected it to based on the lecute video:
[Show_config](/E02/Show_config.PNG)

For both switches, I checked that the ports were actually properly activated, which they were:
[Show_ports](/E02/Show_ports.PNG)

Now, I set IP addresses for both of my Lubuntu machines, which gave me no trobule:
* [Wired_connection1](/E02/Editing_wired_connection1.PNG)
* [Wired_connection2](/E02/Editing_wired_connection2.PNG)

I checked that they were set up correctly. The IP address 192.168.0.1/24 worked fine, the other IP address (192.168.0.2/24) took a few seconds longer to be set up. After entering the ip addr command a second time it worked:
* [IP_address_check1](/E02/IP_address_check1.PNG)
* [IP_address_check2](/E02/IP_address_check2.PNG)

The ultimate connectivity test, pinging the machines. At first pinging the other machine didn't work while having the machine pinging itself of course did work. I googled to figure out the problem, but couldn't find anythign. Then I realised I had forgotten to start up switch 2 again, and I felt a bit foolish. I rebooted switch 2 and then everything worked fine:
[Ping](/E02/Ping.PNG)

After that, I used the show fdb command on each switch, which showed the MAC addresses of the connections to and from each switch:
* [Show_fdb_switch1](/E02/Show_fdb_switch1.PNG)
* [Show_fdb_switch2](/E02/Show_fdb_switch2.PNG)

Next, I created a VLAN "workstations" through each switch, tagged them and checked that it worked:
* [Create_workstation_switch1](/E02/Create_workstation_switch1.PNG)
* [Create_workstation_tag5_switch1](/E02/Create_workstation_tag5_switch1.PNG)
* [Create_workstation_tag5_switch2](/E02/Create_workstation_tag5_switch2.PNG)

After this, I first deleted and then added new ports, and tagged them according to the instructions. I think I don't understand 100% yet what the difference is between tagged and untagged, but I expect that to become clear to me by doing the exercises and studying the material.
Deleting the ports stopped the pinging, as expected:
[Delete_ports](/E02/Delete_ports.PNG)

Adding the new ports resumed the pinging:
[Adding_new_ports](/E02/Added_ports.PNG)

Lastly, I created a third Lubuntu machine by cloning one of the existing ones. Through this machine I used Wireshark to check the traffic inside my mini-virtual network. The numbers in the picture refer to this list:
1 Find the source MAC address
2 What is the Ethertype
3 Find the source IP address
4 What is the Payload of the Ethernet frame in the selected capture row?

[Wireshark_capture](/E02/Wireshark_capture.PNG)

Lastly, I recorded the configuration of the switches:
[Recording_configuration](/E02/Recording_config.PNG)

I saved the configuration of each switch into separate documents. The Lubuntu2-output is a whole lot longer than that of Lubuntu1, and I'm not sure why. Many lines read "Invalid input detected at '^' marker", but this was in response to system-commands and not to my own. The only thing I can think of is that the system didn't initially accept my password, I was a bit fast at entering it and I think the system wasn't able yet to check that it indeed was the correct password:
* [Switch1](/E02/Lubuntu1_switch.cfg)
* [Switch2](/E02/Lubuntu2_switch.cfg)


